Advent of Cyber 2025 – Day 10: SOC Alert Triaging
(Tinsel Triage – whatever the elves are freaking out about)
Man, I jumped into this room this morning and honestly... I got pissed off quick. The whole thing is you’re in this fake SOC at “The Best Festival Company,” alerts are blowing up everywhere, and you’re supposed to triage them in Microsoft Sentinel. Sounds cool on paper – separate the real attacks from the noise.
What I actually learned (the useful shit):
Triage isn’t just clicking alerts randomly. You gotta look at four main things first:

Severity – how bad would this actually hurt us?
Time – when did it pop? Is it a one-off or a bunch clustered together?
Context – where does this fit in the kill chain? Recon, initial access, privesc, etc.?
Impacted – who or what got hit? Is it some random workstation or a critical server?

Then you dive deeper:

Pull up the full alert details
Jump to the logs (KQL queries – basically SQL for logs)
Correlate other alerts/incidents
Build a timeline of what actually happened
Decide: true positive, false positive, or benign
Document everything and what you’d do next

The main alert was a Linux PrivEsc attempt using that Polkit exploit on a box called app-02. You correlate it with some reverse shell stuff on another machine, see the attacker backing up shadow, adding a user to sudoers, getting root SSH, etc. Classic chain.
Biggest pain in my ass: the logs.
The room kept saying use “eastus-sentinel” workspace or whatever, but mine deployed as “law-aoc2025” (which is normal). Then Syslog table was completely empty for me at first. I’m sitting there running queries, getting nothing, feeling like a complete idiot. The bot basically told me “skill issue” and I’m like... yeah, no shit, but also fuck you bot.
Turns out it’s just a deployment timing thing – you gotta wait after deploying the lab and rules, sometimes redeploy the whole thing. Once I did that, Syslog_CL finally populated and I could see the messages (it’s a custom table, not the default Syslog).
Key queries I ended up using:

Filter by host: Syslog_CL | where host_s == "app-02" | project _timestamp_t, host_s, Message
Look for reverse shell junk: Message contains "/bin/bash -i >& /dev/tcp/"

Verdict on the main incident: true positive. Dude got root.
Takeaway for me: Microsoft Sentinel is legit. KQL is powerful once logs actually show up. This is exactly the kind of thing I’d be doing in an OT SOC – triaging alerts on PLCs or HMIs instead of Linux boxes. Feels way more relevant than pure pentest rooms sometimes.
Also, beef officially declared with Splunk from the other day/room and that smug bot. Day 10 done, frustration included. One more rep in the bank.
